Gwenevere Abriel: Salad didn't want you to have to see me chewing.
Gwenevere Abriel: How are you good
Kelli Ottnat: Sorry I'm late.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, that's okay, the timings. Fine. I was
Gwenevere Abriel: Still talking with the client. So just now notice that I kicked you out of the zoom room.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm trying to keep each zoom session separate
Gwenevere Abriel: Just in case. Because everybody on this planet seems like they're using the platform zoom. So there's been some recording difficulties so I'm trying to keep them all. Just chunk together all by themselves in case anything goes, kind of anchor do, then it's just one session not 510
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm sorry I'm going up on you.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, so talk to me. How you been doing this week.
Kelli Ottnat: I've been doing
Kelli Ottnat: Well,
Kelli Ottnat: Mentally pretty strong.
Kelli Ottnat: I've just kind of been sitting back here at the house.
Kelli Ottnat: Haven't had much contact with my son at all and a couple of weeks I'm, I'm assuming he's down in Louisiana. I'm assuming that
Kelli Ottnat: Maybe he's with other family and his grandparents, just don't want to answer the phone.
Kelli Ottnat: Which is falling.
Gwenevere Abriel: What can you see there for a little bit. I I'm missing some pieces of course you know you were living it, but I don't know where it left with. I'm going to go. I'm in Louisiana. I got to see him once, and then you disappeared.
Kelli Ottnat: Yeah, it was, it was kind of tough. I was, I was really hoping to stay in Louisiana.
Kelli Ottnat: And get a job and and work on getting him back.
Kelli Ottnat: But the, the only place I had to stay. I mean, there was
Kelli Ottnat: There was quite a bit of drug use a
Kelli Ottnat: I did. I didn't get in the mix of it, but it was just
Kelli Ottnat: Chaotic I couldn't. There wasn't really a place for me.
Kelli Ottnat: And of course that
Kelli Ottnat: I miss Scott
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm assuming you're sitting together. He's lying in bed.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because that's what I'm hearing
Kelli Ottnat: No, he's he's at work.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's your dog.
Kelli Ottnat: Uh huh. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right.
Kelli Ottnat: Right there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right there. That's adorable.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is this our first time meeting since we did the bio psychosocial
Gwenevere Abriel: Feel like it is.
Gwenevere Abriel: We met April 4 we did an a kind of modified psychosocial we took prior information. I feel like this is the first time we're meeting.
Kelli Ottnat: Yeah, I had checked in at 530 but that wasn't really a
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah, no, I'm just talking about because I'm looking at my notes and like what the last time was bio psychosocial. We haven't met any other time. Besides that, so I'm just checking myself. All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: It doesn't, you're fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's just I gotta re label it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: I gotta get my name straight. I've got your son, and I know I'm going to mess it up. It's like Judah, Joe, something like that. Right.
Dude,
Gwenevere Abriel: And he's teen 13. What's the age again.
Gwenevere Abriel: He's 813 from
Gwenevere Abriel: Huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: What did I get that age summer okay so age eight, for whatever reason, I made this story like men at a park son somewhere. I don't know where I got that I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Remember how it was it was I think these grandparents are keeping him from me. I'm going to go up there. I need to see my son, but I don't understand what how I don't understand how you got to see him i don't i don't get that. Could you fill me in
Kelli Ottnat: Well I, I drove down there and
Kelli Ottnat: As soon as I got in town. I called
Kelli Ottnat: In and his grandpa brought him to Jude's grandpa brought him to a park.
Gwenevere Abriel: It was a car. I was right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. What was that like to see little man.
Kelli Ottnat: It's always you know bittersweet every time we meet
Kelli Ottnat: Of course, we both miss each other.
Kelli Ottnat: Within the visit end
Kelli Ottnat: And that makes it hard on Jude.
Gwenevere Abriel: What about what about you.
Kelli Ottnat: And it's tough, but I've kind of
Kelli Ottnat: become callous to it, you know, to
Kelli Ottnat: I know I want to see him. And I know it's gonna, you know, it always hurts, leaving them but
Kelli Ottnat: It's a lot tougher on him. The last time I think it was the last time we met.
Kelli Ottnat: He are actually I've seen him a couple of times a few times but the first time that I'm talking with you about after the visit. He had to meet with a psychiatrist.
Gwenevere Abriel: But what was the behaviors. Do you know what they were. I was breaking things. I had a tantrum. I had a crying spell. I was catatonic what were the behaviors that determine the decision to see a psychiatrist or psychologist.
And
Kelli Ottnat: They didn't tell me specifically
Gwenevere Abriel: I wouldn't want to know.
Kelli Ottnat: He was acting out in school.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, there we go.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Does that make you think
Kelli Ottnat: That he's angry.
Gwenevere Abriel: angry, angry about
Um,
Kelli Ottnat: I'm assuming I would feel like I think he probably feels trapped there with his grandparents.
Kelli Ottnat: It's tough, even, even the phone conversations we have.
Kelli Ottnat: Is grandpa is norm, you know they're they're very short within two or three minutes and his grandpa is normally got him on speakerphone.
Kelli Ottnat: Pushing him to talk to me. And sometimes we just want to be on you know he'll want to be on the phone and be thinking about what he wants to talk about in his grandpa's Russian talk to your mom, you know,
And
Kelli Ottnat: And then he always pushes them to hang up the phone and it's
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, yeah, that's not that's not you and Jude connecting all that right. It's not the same.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a forced contrived experience that's not ideal. I hear you. Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: How about the time that you got to see him was there. Were there moments where granddad pulled back long enough you can have that nice slow flow where there was this quiet. You could just sort of be together at the park. Yeah, yeah.
Kelli Ottnat: Yeah, he didn't really get he's actually in a walker. Now the Grandpa.
Gwenevere Abriel: Grandpa. Yeah.
Kelli Ottnat: So, um,
Kelli Ottnat: Typically, he'll you know he'll stay in the truck or it'll take them a while to get down to the park. So we'll go off and
Kelli Ottnat: Kind of visit
Gwenevere Abriel: And What strengths do you see in Jude. What do you like seeing him. What, what are your strengths
Kelli Ottnat: He's
Kelli Ottnat: He's so strong, to be able to deal with all of this for one
Kelli Ottnat: He's funny.
Kelli Ottnat: Is really funny.
Kelli Ottnat: I really don't know him to. Well, I know he's got a lot of strength.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, stay there. Notice that you're crying.
Gwenevere Abriel: I invited to talk about the strengths
Gwenevere Abriel: And is that tier, right, if we can do some metaphor for a minute. What do you think that tier might be saying,
Gwenevere Abriel: Your tier
Kelli Ottnat: But i wanna i
Kelli Ottnat: Want to get to know my baby more
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, yeah. And there's some obstacles.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's the status.
Gwenevere Abriel: From the courts.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's there. What's the legal because you I you know I signed something don't even know if it was legal. That's how it stuck in my memory. Right. And so it's like, well, let's get clear. Are you clear what is your legal standing with Jude.
Kelli Ottnat: Um,
Kelli Ottnat: Well, right now there's papers to just say visitation that the grandpa's discretion.
Kelli Ottnat: Which I was I was rushed to sign them. It was like it was in the evening, the day that I signed the papers. It was late in the evening.
Kelli Ottnat: And a
Kelli Ottnat: great grandpa kept calling me to come to a lawyers office.
Kelli Ottnat: Before they closed. I guess the office had already been closed and
Kelli Ottnat: I pulled up there and
Kelli Ottnat: It was real fast that it was a stack of papers. I didn't really read their like just sign these offices close these people need to get out of here.
Kelli Ottnat: And
Kelli Ottnat: My reason for signing them was I didn't want you to go to OCS care.
Kelli Ottnat: So,
Kelli Ottnat: I signed them in
Kelli Ottnat: Later I found out that the visitation was at the grandpa's discretion and the paperwork.
Kelli Ottnat: So I don't really know where we stand.
Gwenevere Abriel: We have a
Gwenevere Abriel: Copy of that paperwork.
Kelli Ottnat: Uh huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: You do have it.
Kelli Ottnat: I'm kind of
Kelli Ottnat: Afraid to read it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. All right. Well, we can do it together. If it turns out that somehow we can bolster that with my presence here. Maybe I could read it, or let's see how that plays out, but it's a lot to say. I'm afraid to read it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe it's enough to just sit with getting
Gwenevere Abriel: Some comfort or familiarity with that night.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because I'm guessing there's
Gwenevere Abriel: Why really
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, like what's going on.
Gwenevere Abriel: Why, why, then why arriving late when everyone's leaving was that addiction running the show back then.
Kelli Ottnat: It could have been
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, how likely
Gwenevere Abriel: What else would have kept you from going to that import appointment on time except the attic.
Gwenevere Abriel: What else could have gotten in the way besides
Kelli Ottnat: Me not wanting to sign the papers.
Gwenevere Abriel: There we go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, baby. I got you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I hadn't thought about that one. Like, I may not know what and how to navigate this force, but I can procrastinate like I can stall. Okay, I see it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, not wanting to sign
Gwenevere Abriel: What else might have kept you from getting there, and time to read it.
Kelli Ottnat: I think now that I think about back. That was, that was it. I felt kind of forced Jude's dad was in jail.
And
Kelli Ottnat: I didn't really have anybody to talk to about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You said there could have been some influence of substance.
Gwenevere Abriel: How much
Gwenevere Abriel: Either heroin or math or I'm not sure what all you were doing at the time, how much of it. How deeply entrenched. Were you at that right at that moment on that day or that 72 hour time span how how bad wasn't right at that point.
Kelli Ottnat: Honestly, I don't even
Gwenevere Abriel: Know,
Kelli Ottnat: It was probably pretty bad.
Kelli Ottnat: I know I was on methadone. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, you also using even though you're on methadone.
Kelli Ottnat: Yeah, at that point in time.
Gwenevere Abriel: We ever told anybody not
Kelli Ottnat: Actually, hold on.
Okay.
Kelli Ottnat: When OCS garden. There was some nothingness.
Kelli Ottnat: I've been to the day really that OCS got involved.
Kelli Ottnat: Yeah, and and I quit. I quit meth, I was just taking the Methadone
Gwenevere Abriel: But why, why, there must have been something else.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because method know doesn't really treat methamphetamine. So will you also doing heroin at the time to
Gwenevere Abriel: No, no, why did you choose methadone.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just
Gwenevere Abriel: Creating prevention.
Because I'm
Kelli Ottnat: Taking
Kelli Ottnat: pain pills before
Kelli Ottnat: Before I got pregnant with Jude.
Kelli Ottnat: And
Kelli Ottnat: And when I got pregnant.
Kelli Ottnat: I was told that methadone was
Kelli Ottnat: I got a safe alternative. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me see if I get the time from I remember this with you before I have a hard time tracking timeline with you and I'm feeling it again.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I don't know if it feels like that to you. Does it feel like you have a hard time catching dates with certain events. Does it feel like
Kelli Ottnat: Some what
Kelli Ottnat: Are some things that really stand out like like the OCI situation. I remember that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, let's get a piece of paper together. Let's do it together. Grab it. You got a pen. Let's grab a paper so that I can, I can do it with you. So I'm going to put right here, a very central event is that one. I'm going to draw horizontal line and then like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's going to be this one right here in the middle. That's going to be the and you have it out here. It's def department children, families, you know, New Mexico. It's something similar to that. See why FT guys call it out there. So, out, up in Louisiana its own si se
Kelli Ottnat: Just OCS
Gwenevere Abriel: Thank you. Okay. And that was, we're thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: What year
Gwenevere Abriel: Is 2020 now.
That was
Kelli Ottnat: Okay, so that would be
Kelli Ottnat: Probably 2014 okay
Gwenevere Abriel: I've got a pencil I can always change it.
Gwenevere Abriel: If it starts to shift, you know, the sort of that timing shifts once more things get on the timeline and
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's go to 2012
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's write
Gwenevere Abriel: That's right. A little hash mark for 2011 10
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's go all the way to when you're pregnant.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Was he born in 2012 2011
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, once his birthday.
Kelli Ottnat: Five.
May 31 2011
Kelli Ottnat: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so at that point. Let's go back. Let's go to
Gwenevere Abriel: My calendar for months and see if I can
Gwenevere Abriel: Try it that way.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: So found out pregnant sometime maybe August, maybe, something like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: 2010 maybe somewhere in there.
Kelli Ottnat: Yeah.
Kelli Ottnat: Right.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that timeline and you said, Well, I was using pills, up until I found out I was pregnant or some months into the pregnancy.
Kelli Ottnat: Until I found out I was pregnant.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. And do you think that was August, maybe pretty early. Few weeks into it or
Kelli Ottnat: Yes.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And how long had you been taking pills.
Kelli Ottnat: And
Kelli Ottnat: Really since I was about 16
Kelli Ottnat: Pretty much pretty steady
Gwenevere Abriel: See, find out and then start methadone clinic next week, you find out next day after you find out you're pregnant. How quickly did you get on a methadone protocol. Once you found out you were pregnant.
Kelli Ottnat: I think it was pretty much immediately.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Alright, so we've got
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so going along.
Gwenevere Abriel: Methadone there, then he's born
Gwenevere Abriel: What happened after he was born with garden substance use.
And
Kelli Ottnat: Everything was was lovely picture perfect
Kelli Ottnat: I was still taking methadone. Okay.
Kelli Ottnat: And he did have some Jude had some complications from the pregnancy.
Kelli Ottnat: Because of the Methadone
Gwenevere Abriel: What were they
Kelli Ottnat: What he was he was a good, good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so he was chemically born chemically dependent
Gwenevere Abriel: Anything else about the delivery itself, was it affected.
Kelli Ottnat: He wouldn't eat when he was born.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, did you try to breastfeed him. How did that impact that not eating piece.
Kelli Ottnat: Well, we
Kelli Ottnat: Ended up having to have a feeding tube.
Gwenevere Abriel: He was he born prematurely.
Kelli Ottnat: No, he was born on time. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Check in with your body. Let's do a little check in. I want to see how how you're doing around this conversation. See, see what's happening just kind of
Kelli Ottnat: My chest feels a little heavy and okay
Honey,
Kelli Ottnat: My breasts are a lot shorter and slower.
Gwenevere Abriel: Short
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you take a minute and tune into your faith. We do that together, maybe, together with the breath, but down into the belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Make sure right open up that chest a little bit, get that breath down into the lower belly. On an inhale and on your own just sort of bring in your face in whatever way feels right for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Notice for me, my shoulders drop down, I noticed I started to relax a little bit. How about you, how, how is this journey into shift how your chest and the depth of your breath. How's that starting to change.
Kelli Ottnat: I can, I can relax a little bit
Kelli Ottnat: But I wish.
Kelli Ottnat: I mean the whole the whole deal with Jude being born.
Kelli Ottnat: on methadone was
was tough.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh. So Kelly. Are you feeling the toughness of it are you actually remembering that and feeling the toughness of it just now what that was.
Kelli Ottnat: I don't know what I was thinking.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, what are you thinking now, we can only we can only be aware of what's going on. Now tell me what your thoughts are now tell me how your actions, your belief in your face or on the same page. Tell me about who you are right now.
Kelli Ottnat: I do feel awful for
Kelli Ottnat: For not being able to get clean
Kelli Ottnat: And
Kelli Ottnat: When I got pregnant with Jude.
Kelli Ottnat: His Dad was so strong. Through it all, though.
Kelli Ottnat: Was really my my support.
Gwenevere Abriel: And he went to jail.
Kelli Ottnat: Right. He went to jail.
Kelli Ottnat: Well, for
Kelli Ottnat: For a year and a half.
Kelli Ottnat: We, we had bought a place and
Kelli Ottnat: And we were there for about a year and a half me Jude and Jude Stan Sterling.
Kelli Ottnat: And lunch. Once
Kelli Ottnat: Was pretty good.
Kelli Ottnat: I mean, there wasn't any math use
Kelli Ottnat: And Jude was happy I was pretty happy.
Kelli Ottnat: starling was pretty happy.
Gwenevere Abriel: You were still on the Methadone
Gwenevere Abriel: Just sit with that a little bit longer.
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel awful for not getting clean
Gwenevere Abriel: For during the pregnancy. I kind of right that that was true. And notice how I was pretty happy started with. It was picture perfect, but when we sat with it a little longer. Was it picture perfect
Gwenevere Abriel: No, thank you, then you remember the complications, then these other pieces started coming forward to the more you sit with it in here with me. We get little bits start coming forward a little bit more, a little bit more. And you're sitting with
Gwenevere Abriel: The toughness of that history.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're doing the work. That's what it is. It's sitting with, who am I with those memories.
Gwenevere Abriel: Meeting them.
Gwenevere Abriel: welcoming them in all the same. You're not in this alone on right here. You also have your faith. You have the group, we have Scott, you have whatever else that I don't know about.
Gwenevere Abriel: I believe in you. It doesn't mean we have to feel all of them all at once. Well we starting to write a timeline to start to get clear to see which ones you may be not paying attention to.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, that might get in the way of the future for you doing this. I remember he said, I feel awful for not getting clean
Gwenevere Abriel: What if we look at the past understand it feel better around it so that when you really get in your solid and I know you already are in your determination to get Jude back
Gwenevere Abriel: A. What if you also are in your determination to get clean
Gwenevere Abriel: completely clean. What if you were ready.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you get him back and you're not on anything. What are your thoughts, way up there. I don't know when. But what if that's something you want to do. I don't know. Is it something you want to do.
Kelli Ottnat: Yeah, that's kind of my whole purpose. That's my only purpose.
Gwenevere Abriel: It. This is a handy little it's gonna be a little light hearted, but kind of catchy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Pills.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or needles. It's just doesn't rhyme with needles. So pills.
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't teach skills okay oversimplify but let's look at it.
Gwenevere Abriel: If it was only the methadone, then everything would be hunky dory. It would be the magic and we would all be fine. And we would all live a happy life.
Gwenevere Abriel: We need this part, the stuff you're doing right now where you're looking at tough emotions in history.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're centering you're breathing. You're praying, right. This is a skill. I don't know how much you had it available to you and your when you were a younger mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: You need the skills I think maybe didn't have them maybe as far back as when you decided the solution was pills at 16 or maybe there was a whole lot of marijuana use to, I don't know, but that was a solution to an identified problem.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm curious about what the problem was. And if you face it again. Will you solve it.
Gwenevere Abriel: With self acceptance self love
Gwenevere Abriel: With meditation with exercise with nutrition or will you reach for another substance to escape.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm curious to see if incrementally, you can start to understand what the original problems were that you were trying to solve it with substances.
Kelli Ottnat: And
Kelli Ottnat: I think most of, I mean, I really don't like putting this on.
Kelli Ottnat: On my childhood or
Kelli Ottnat: On any one of my parents because I know that they tried, and I know that
Gwenevere Abriel: I won't tell them, Kelly and
Gwenevere Abriel: Indulge
Kelli Ottnat: My mom.
Kelli Ottnat: She had it pretty tough. She had a lot of siblings and her dad was
Kelli Ottnat: Pretty tough on her really tough on her.
Kelli Ottnat: So I guess, you know, that's all. The only way she knew to be
Gwenevere Abriel: Kelly.
Gwenevere Abriel: You spent that minute making an excuse for how she hurts you instead of telling me how she hurt you. You know that
Gwenevere Abriel: My we're right here. God already knows what happened, it's not for you to forgive or not forgive. That's God's business.
Gwenevere Abriel: Such as your therapist. This is the medicine be with another human being right here and a pet. Absolutely. Let him love you. Yeah, they know okay indulge in the social medicine, the healing of letting another human hold that pain.
Kelli Ottnat: I guess.
Kelli Ottnat: I have a hard time getting over is
Kelli Ottnat: Like public humiliation.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sorry.
Gwenevere Abriel: Read through it. You're just touching it, pulling it up into your memory.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, it's so it's so embarrassing and humiliating.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I don't even know what it is but humiliation is a universal experience.
Gwenevere Abriel: Awful.
Gwenevere Abriel: Know, Kelly. I'm so sorry that happened.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, we can love people. And we can even forgive them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Still have really wanted us those two things. You don't have to but out the other that love if you do have an unconditional piece for your mom and compassionate about her. Her wounding lets your animal take care of you, he's loving and he feels it. Okay. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can be both we we can do both. Okay, we can have deep resentment and even anger and nine not saying today, you're ready to have that anger.
Gwenevere Abriel: But maybe down the line might meet see me saying let's let's hear a little bit about that because we can love the person we can see past
Gwenevere Abriel: You know your mother's difficult childhood or we can rash, we'd see past all the rationalization about how she humiliated you and we can also be very sad and angry.
Gwenevere Abriel: They don't exclude each other, you're not going to have to stop forgiving. Mom, you're not going to have to stop accepting
Gwenevere Abriel: And loving. Okay, we won't have to do that. Not the kind of work I'm doing. It's not going to be an either or thing, unless it's what you want. If you want that, then that's your, your journey, but I'm not going to be saying, well, let's hate her. She's the bad guy. I won't be doing that. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I just
Gwenevere Abriel: Humiliation is just next level suffering and I don't know what it was, but
Gwenevere Abriel: They really stick
Gwenevere Abriel: A humiliation that you're remembering
Gwenevere Abriel: Was it like one time or just over and over throughout
Gwenevere Abriel: A time
Kelli Ottnat: Yeah, it was.
Kelli Ottnat: It was more than just a couple of times.
Kelli Ottnat: I guess she just
Kelli Ottnat: She
Gwenevere Abriel: Just
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you sit with how the humiliation was for you. I'll hold all the justification here all folded over here and I'll say
Gwenevere Abriel: Your mom did the best she could, she had a tough upbringing and if she knew any better. She's done better. She couldn't. I'll hold all that justification.
Gwenevere Abriel: I wanted to give you room to be pissed off to be said entitled, you could be whatever you want. I still hold that part of she's got her story to generation after generation failing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Their child and then their child and in their child and you didn't quite get what you needed from them.
It's pretty
Kelli Ottnat: Mean when when something like that happened.
Gwenevere Abriel: You look so hurt and
Gwenevere Abriel: Keep breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's both.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not happening right now. You are loved have love that humiliation isn't happening now.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it can feel like that when we bring it up into our mind.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you want to name it. Do you want to hear another person, hear the story they it when something like that happens to want to see my reaction to it.
Kelli Ottnat: I guess I'm just kind of stuck in the moment right now.
Kelli Ottnat: Trying to figure out
Gwenevere Abriel: So it isn't happening now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. Look around your room.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can see shadows, I can see shapes. I see colors I see angles. Right. I can have. It's not, I'm not in danger now.
Gwenevere Abriel: The power of the mind and the perception of danger can feel very real and the science. I can tell you, really easy doesn't have the right timestamp and it can feel like that trauma that repeated trauma that humiliation can feel like it's happening now.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm not surprised that what that aspect, the sad stuff you can feel like you're in the moment, as if time just stood still and it was half that intensity. I get that.
Gwenevere Abriel: It doesn't mean it's going to be like that forever. I already have been witness to people that do things like whether it is exposure therapy and you're doing it right now because you're thinking about it even a little bit you're changing the memory.
Gwenevere Abriel: And later on if you want to do some of these other techniques that we can do. You're literally changing the relationship with that memory and slowly but surely it will be set back in time and it won't feel like it's relived
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I have faith in that I do believe in this work.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, what would happen if I heard one small piece of it. That was pretty bad.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is the worst thing I could do to support your mom's perspective. Would that be the worst.
Gwenevere Abriel: Would I do that or
Gwenevere Abriel: Would it be to only feel sorry for you to see was helpless. Would I do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, somewhere.
Kelli Ottnat: pretty neutral.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it possible that you think
Gwenevere Abriel: There's something shameful, as if to say that humiliation was effective in making you feel ashamed, as if there's something wrong with you. Is that what it is. Are you thinking there's something wrong with you now.
Kelli Ottnat: No, but it's just
Kelli Ottnat: It's hard to
Kelli Ottnat: even talk about
Kelli Ottnat: One example was
Kelli Ottnat: I was playing in the front yard and it
Kelli Ottnat: Was probably five or six
Kelli Ottnat: And
Gwenevere Abriel: Look around your room, sweet pea. It's not happening right now baby cakes look
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not happening. Now, look at me. I wasn't there at age five, look around taken both exist at the same time that memory feels awful, but it is not happening now, look around, look at your animal. Look at the shapes and colors.
Gwenevere Abriel: And remember that love you have for Jude.
Gwenevere Abriel: Remember the faith, you have
Gwenevere Abriel: In God
Gwenevere Abriel: And that event, although it feels as if it's happening right now is not. That's how powerful the mind is
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, so you did it, you touched it in touch, gently and he came back.
Gwenevere Abriel: So there is that history and you came back.
Gwenevere Abriel: Try it again.
Gwenevere Abriel: One memory h5
Gwenevere Abriel: See it but checking and see if you actually still want to tell the stories you're a part of you that wants to tell it. Another part of you that doesn't. And it's like this oscillation between wanting to say and not wanting to say it.
Kelli Ottnat: Will it help me heal by saying it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't have to, but there's something about your lack of telling stories that makes me wonder
Gwenevere Abriel: If it was interpersonal if it really was your mom humiliating you,
Gwenevere Abriel: It could be that the inner personal space between you and I, there might be some healing.
Gwenevere Abriel: It won't mean that you have to tell every single story. Not if we do this CMDR work or other techniques that we can do. You won't have to tell all the dark stories all the ugliness. People have to. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: But because I have so few. It's almost like I'm still doing an assessment. I know so little.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you see what I'm saying, can I have that one little one just to see what you're talking about. And watch you because I hadn't been able to do this before I hadn't been able to see you meet it in your memory and see what happens to you, you get very sad. It looks like.
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't have to do. I think it will heal.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not God. What do you think, do you think saying it to me, will help in some way, our work together.
Gwenevere Abriel: perfectly okay well do as much as you're comfortable and you can just, you know, because you just right. I haven't pulled you back. I said, Wait, look around, right. Yep, I interrupted you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you can stop anytime you want to. You can we got as far as well. There's one example on stage five. And then you felt the feeling you don't actually have to feel the feeling of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just
Gwenevere Abriel: See it from a distance. Looks like I'm about age five. I'm on a swing my mom does this and then I hit in this corner or I cry or I bled or I broke or whatever. I don't know what this thing is story is, but as if a detached sort of observer.
Gwenevere Abriel: You could. I don't know.
How
Kelli Ottnat: To say it.
Kelli Ottnat: I was playing in the yard with
Kelli Ottnat: Probably my siblings or
Kelli Ottnat: Couple of friends is a few kids.
And
Kelli Ottnat: My mom was in the driveway.
Gwenevere Abriel: Keep breathing maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: She knew better. She did done better. Okay. You are not your skin, you're not that humiliation. You are far more than that. Not just that event.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold on. Okay.
Kelli Ottnat: She should stop you, the yard.
Kelli Ottnat: She called me over.
Kelli Ottnat: To her the driveway. There was it I guess what our friends in a car, she was talking to
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, honey.
Kelli Ottnat: She told me to lift up my shirt.
Gwenevere Abriel: pushy pointing out like you're developing body or something about that.
Kelli Ottnat: I was. I wasn't joking. It's
Gwenevere Abriel: Unacceptable.
Gwenevere Abriel: Unacceptable. Oh, honey.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, honey.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm so sorry. She didn't that thought was not nice. She wasn't thinking about your feelings.
Kelli Ottnat: She pointed out that very
Kelli Ottnat: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh sweetheart.
Kelli Ottnat: I don't even like this issue.
Kelli Ottnat: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: I know but baby your body. This is our body. We only have one. And somehow, and I don't know what this piece is, but if he has anything to do with our one body were given. And we can't miss love it totally and completely
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to get in the way.
Kelli Ottnat: Las Vegas.
Gwenevere Abriel: You did a brave thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: You scurried back a little. There's something about that whatever part of the body. It has extra meaning for you and you don't like that you have an issue with it and I hurt you.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you did some good work. You decide.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do I want to just say it so that I can remove the shame.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can remove that there's anything wrong. There's no need for a secret. Not anymore.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just check in with yourself.
Kelli Ottnat: The thing about it is I was
Kelli Ottnat: I guess I was in Caitlyn, you know, I was having fun in the yard.
Kelli Ottnat: For her to pull me away. Tell me to lift up my shirt for her friend.
Kelli Ottnat: So that you know she couldn't
Kelli Ottnat: Just couldn't bear. I don't know. It was really
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you did some analysis, you went into her intention. If I said something. Could you correct me and say, no, that wasn't it. Would that be useful.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so if if my mom pulled me over and I was
Gwenevere Abriel: Free and in play, which means not preoccupied with Worry not, I was just in my groove.
Gwenevere Abriel: And abruptly just pulled from that simple play into humiliation and not only humiliation, but right where my belly meets my pubis as if like right where my personal my vagina, like right in there like my baby little self like right in there. It's like, now what
Gwenevere Abriel: Now there's something wrong. Okay. So I did that story. I made that up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now you see if there's something you want to say.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, or could even even a bit about the vagina. I don't know, but check and see if you have extra shame layer around this piece unsaid.
Kelli Ottnat: She says, I mean pointed out.
Kelli Ottnat: I took it. I took it as she was making fun of me.
Kelli Ottnat: She pointed out that my, my parents weren't over my good
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Beautiful little body. Oh man, I love that about babies.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, keep breathing, honey. You're feel your pet see him right there with you see he's
Gwenevere Abriel: Smiling
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, see you looking right at you.
Gwenevere Abriel: too sweet just rights week, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That was
Gwenevere Abriel: Just being like ripped from
Gwenevere Abriel: That it's okay to relax and be safe, just like rocket ship blasted into this other reality. Like, it's no longer okay to just be spontaneous and in play, you'll get ripped from it and pulled into this other part.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what that looks like out here.
Gwenevere Abriel: You were lost in play. You were just being a kid and kids, don't worry. And that's what's so cool. Is there just that's what play is we're lost in our group for in a flow, even as adults we even have, you know, I have forgot about time and I just kind of got into like dancing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like dance. You know, you get lost in it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Ripped you out of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: How can a person who's supposed to protect you humiliate you those two things I'll look you've got double let him love you let them clean up your little tear face. How cute is the hat.
Gwenevere Abriel: Cute.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, I want to process a little bit with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: work you did and you did work awfully hard
Gwenevere Abriel: walk it through and maybe be an observer of yourself and just sort of touch on what you notice was important for you about today.
Kelli Ottnat: I feel like
Kelli Ottnat: Identifying sitting with the feeling
Uh huh.
Kelli Ottnat: And identifying
Kelli Ottnat: Because I hadn't even really thought
Kelli Ottnat: Too much about about it since it's happened and
Kelli Ottnat: Just identifying how I felt. Before, and after.
Kelli Ottnat: The situation and
Kelli Ottnat: Maybe I'll be able to process.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, we're good.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you haven't visited that memory very often that you're aware of. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And look how how we started.
Gwenevere Abriel: Notice that all I asked you to do was
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's not glide across the surface and be uncertain of our timeline. Let's look at time
Gwenevere Abriel: And then you said, I don't want to think negatively of my
Gwenevere Abriel: Family and my childhood.
Gwenevere Abriel: She did give yourself permission to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then you felt it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's that I don't want to villainize maybe I don't want, I don't want to think of my family like
Gwenevere Abriel: That cuts you off from processing. It's not either or.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not good. I'm not bad.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm just one
Gwenevere Abriel: Sometimes I'm in a good mood. Sometimes I'm tired. Sometimes I'm irritable or frustrated and I imagine you have those experiences to
Gwenevere Abriel: neat thing about what you have, because you have this strong faith. You don't have to be judging jury, you get to feel your feelings. Someone else is going to judge
Gwenevere Abriel: Mom's behavior, not you. You get to sit here and you can tell a professional what that did to shape your life and you can heal and know you don't have to keep telling me these stories. If you don't want to
Gwenevere Abriel: But if you do, I want to hear them.
Gwenevere Abriel: And if you want to hear another human being, say, that's an acceptable.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your mom still forgivable but that action unacceptable.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm so sorry. It happened then tell as many or as little stories as you want.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me a little bit about how you're feeling right now as we end this session. Tell me about your breath. Look, still kind of up high, still feels like shoulders up
Gwenevere Abriel: Does it feel like that maybe allow gravity to pull those babies down
Right.
Kelli Ottnat: Yeah, I'll probably process for the next half hour hour just kind of breathe and hang out here with
Kelli Ottnat: The dogs step.
Gwenevere Abriel: Prayer animals. Notice when the way if a wave comes, go for it. If you want to grieve.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because maybe grief is what's done done grief have the freedom to be an unconcerned kid that may have ended.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know what it is. And that's why telling me a specific story was important because I didn't know what we were grieving. I didn't even know grief was the thing I didn't know because you were busy protecting an image that you have, if your parents.
Gwenevere Abriel: See, we could
Gwenevere Abriel: So I was a little uncertain will is that, is it going to heal. I don't know. We had to find ourselves.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sometimes it is, sometimes naming it exactly what it is. No dance around it. No excuses no justification, we say this was said this was done and then it's out there and shame disappears. Well not immediately, but it can enlightens it secrets out. This is what happened.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, let's meet again.
Okay.
Kelli Ottnat: Do you want to text me with a time i'm i'm open if you need to go.
Gwenevere Abriel: To I wanna
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to schedule it
Gwenevere Abriel: And want to really commit to something here. I'm trying to look start takes off.
Gwenevere Abriel: By when
Kelli Ottnat: Usually for like nine or 10 he's
Gwenevere Abriel: And which group you're coming to my Friday with Dr. Solomon.
Kelli Ottnat: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm wondering if we can make a little flip flop, just for next week or permanently is still be with Dr. Solomon, though, if you like working with him. It could be nine o'clock on Monday and 10 O'clock individual therapy at 10 on
Gwenevere Abriel: April 17
Gwenevere Abriel: So it'd be group April 13 9am same doctor
Gwenevere Abriel: And then individual therapy would be April 17 at 10am
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now I had
Gwenevere Abriel: Just so you know, just to come completely full circle. I had penciled in something with a three o'clock thing on April 9 if you see that floating around just erase it.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's just me having forgotten for a second about the 10am thing. So just if you run across it. Don't panic. That's not an appointment.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, all right, all right, my dear. You are one brave lady.
Kelli Ottnat: You are so great.
Gwenevere Abriel: Great all
Kelli Ottnat: You are all
Kelli Ottnat: Really you so much.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I feel honored to have heard that piece, truly I do because I, I know that doesn't get shared very often. So, or ever
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll, I'll keep it in my sacred little spot. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, my dear, you. Take care. I'll see you soon.
Kelli Ottnat: Thanks. You too.